# Data-Science-Portfolio

Repository containing portfolio of data science projects completed as part of course work during masters and self learning. Most of them are presented in the form of Jupyter notebook.

## Contents
- ### Machine learning micro projects

     - [Iris data-KNN Algorithm](https://github.com/roshinireddy/Data-Science-Portfolio/blob/master/ML%20micro%20projects/Iris%20data-Knn%20Algorithm.ipynb): This project involves building a KNN algorithm on the iris dataset in order to predict the species when sepal length, sepal width, petal width and petal length provided.
     - [Bikeshare data-Linear regression](https://github.com/roshinireddy/Data-Science-Portfolio/blob/master/ML%20micro%20projects/Bikeshare%20data-Linear%20regression.ipynb): This project involves building linear regression model on the bikeshare data which has been obtained from kaggle website. A linear regression model was built to predict count variable(number of total rentals) and its accuracy was calculated. Data visualization, exploratory data analysis has been performed.
     - [Adult salary data-Logistic regression](https://github.com/roshinireddy/Data-Science-Portfolio/blob/master/ML%20micro%20projects/adult%20salary%20data-Logistic%20regression.ipynb): This project involves building logistic regression model on the adult_sal data which has been obtained from UCI Machine Learning Repository. I attempted to predict if people in the data set belong in a certain class by salary, either making <=50k or >50k per year using logistic regression model and model's accuracy, precision, recall was calculated. Data visualization, data manipulation has been performed.
     - [Loan data-Support Vector Machine](https://github.com/roshinireddy/Data-Science-Portfolio/blob/master/ML%20micro%20projects/Loan%20data-Support%20Vector%20Machine.ipynb): This project involved exploratory analysis and data visulaization of loan data which was obtained from LendingClub.com. Lending Club connects people who need money (borrowers) with people who have money (investors). Investor would want to invest in people who showed a profile of having a high probability of paying you back. A SVM model is developed that will help in predicting not.fully.paid variable.
     - [College data-Tree models](https://github.com/roshinireddy/Data-Science-Portfolio/blob/master/ML%20micro%20projects/College%20data-Tree%20models.ipynb):This project involved exploring the use of tree methods to classify schools as Private or Public based off their features. Data has been obtained from the ISLR Library.

- ### Other Projects

     - [Dialysis facility performance in the United States](https://github.com/roshinireddy/Data-Science-Portfolio/blob/master/Dialysis%20facility%20performance%20in%20the%20United%20States.R):This project mainly focuses on implementing machine learning algorithms to appropriately extract the facility features that significantly impact the facility outcome. Studying these factors can help us understand the reasons for the wide disparities in a performance that are present in the data. In this project, I have implemented machine learning algorithms such as Random forest for feature extraction, linear regression for predicting the performance score, neural network for classifying the data using select features to identify the organization type of the facilities and support vector machine (SVM) in order to correctly classify organization type based on the extracted features. 
     - [Time series analysis of waiting time](https://github.com/roshinireddy/Data-Science-Portfolio/blob/master/time%20series%20analysis%20of%20waiting%20time.ipynb): This project involves the time series forecasting of the mean inpatient waiting time in UK for the next 5 years.Data from 1999 January to 2009 December is available at https://www.opendatani.gov.uk
     - [Analysis of CHD data](https://github.com/roshinireddy/Data-Science-Portfolio/blob/master/Analysis%20of%20CHD%20data.ipynb): This project involved exploratory data analysis, data visulaization and building naive Bayes classifier model to predict the variable CHD(coronary artery disease).The dataset was obtained from the US Department of Health & Human Services.
     - [Titanic data exploratory analysis](https://github.com/roshinireddy/Data-Science-Portfolio/blob/master/Titanic%20data%20exploratory%20analysis.ipynb): This project involves exploratory analysis of the titanic dataset obtained from the kaggle website(available as test and train data). Random forest algorithm was built using train dataset and applied on the test dataset to predict the Survived variable for the test data.
